THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
ROALD
DAHL
BFG Illustrated by
Quentin Blake
DON'T
MISS THE
STEVEN SPIELBERG FILM
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
ROALD DAHL
The BFG
ILLUSTRATED BY QUENTIN BLAKКЕ
Page iii
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)


THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
ROALD DAHLwas a spy, ace fighter
pilot, chocolate historian and medical inventor.
He was also the author of Charlie and the
Chocolate Factory, Matilda, The BFG and
many more brilliant stories. He remains THE
WORLD'S NUMBER ONE STORYTELLER.
QUENTIN BLAKE has illustrated
more than three hundred books and was Roald
Dahl's favourite illustrator. In 1980 he won the
prestigious Kate Greenaway Medal. In 1999
he became the first ever Children's Laureate
and in 2013 he was knighted for services to
illustration.
Page v
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
~For Olivia~
20 April 1955-17 November 1962
Page v
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
And, of course, SOPHIE, an orphan
The characters in this book are:
HUMANS:
THE QUEEN OF ENGLAND
MARY, the Queen's maid
MR TIBBS, the Palace butler
THE HEAD OF THE ARMY
THE HEAD OF THE AIR FORCE
GIANTS:
THE FLESHLUMPEATER
THE BONECRUNCHER
THE MANHUGGER
THE CHILDCHEWER
THE MEATDRIPPER
THE GIZZARDGULPER
THE MAIDMASHER
THE BLOODBOTTLER
THE BUTCHER BOY
And, of course, THE BFG
Page v
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Chapter One
The Witching Hour
Sophie couldn't sleeр.
A brilliant moonbeam was slanting through
a gap in the curtains. It was shining right on to
her pillow.
The other children in the dormitory had been
asleep for hours.
Sophie closed her eyes and lay quite still. She
tried very hard to doze off.
It was no good. The moonbeam was like a
silver blade slicing through the room on to her
face.
The house was absolutely silent. No voices
came up from downstairs. There were no
footsteps on the floor above either.
The window behind the curtain was wide
open, but nobody was walking on the pavement
outside. No cars went by on the street. Not the
tiniest sound could be heard anywhere. Sophie
had never known such a silence.
Perhaps, she told herself, this was what they
called the witching hour.
Page 1
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
The witching hour, somebody had once
whispered to her, was a special moment in the
middle of the night when every child and every
grown-up was in a deep deep sleep, and all the
dark things came out from hiding and had the
world to themselves.
The moonbeam was brighter than ever on
Sophie's pillow. She decided to get out of bed
and close the gap in the curtains.
You got punished if you were caught out of
bed after lights-out. Even if you said you had to
go to the lavatory, that was not accepted as an
excuse and they punished you just the same.
But there was no one about now, Sophie was
sure of that.
She reached out for her glasses that lay on
the chair beside her bed. They had steel rims
and very thick lenses, and she could hardly see
a thing without them. She put them on, then
she slipped out of bed and tip-toed over to the
window.
When she reached the curtains, Sophie
hesitated. She longed to duck underneath them
Page 1
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
and lean out of the window to see what the
world looked like now that the witching hour
was at hand.
She listened again. Everywhere it was deathly
still.
The longing to look out became so strong she
couldn't resist it. Quickly, she ducked under the
curtains and leaned out of the window.
In the silvery moonlight, the village street
she knew so well seemed completely different.
The houses looked bent and crooked, like
houses in a fairy tale. Everything was pale and
ghostly and milky-white.
Across the road, she could see Mrs Rance's
shop, where you bought buttons and wool and
bits of elastic. It didn't look real. There was
something dim and misty about that too.
Sophie allowed her eye to travel further and
further down the street.
Suddenly she froze. There was something
coming up the street on the opposite side.
It was something black...
Somethingtall and black...
Somethingvery tall and very black and very
thin.
Page 2
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Chapter Two
Who?
It wasn't a human. It couldn't be. It was four
times as tall as the tallest human. It was so tall
its head was higher than the upstairs windows
of the houses. Sophie opened her mouth to
scream, but no sound came out. Her throat, like
her whole body, was frozen with fright.
This was the witching hour all right.
The tall black figure was coming her way.
It was keeping very close to the houses across
the street, hiding in theshadowy places where
there was no moonlight.
On and on it came, nearer and nearer. But it
was moving in spurts. It would stop, then it
would move on, then it would stop again.
But what on earth was it doing?
Ah-ha! Sophie could see now what it was up
to. It was stopping in front of each house. It
would stop and peer into the upstairs window
of each house in the street. It actually had to
bend down to peer into the upstairs windows.
That's how tall it was.
Page 3
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
It would stop and peer in. Then it would slide
on to the next house and stop again, and peer
in, and so on all along the street.
It was much closer now and Sophie could see
it more clearly.
Looking at it carefully, she decided it had to
be some kind of person. Obviously it was not a
human. But it was definitely a person.
A giant person, perhaps.
Sophie stared hard across the misty moonlit
street. The Giant (ifthat was what he was) was
wearing a long black cloak.
In one hand he was holding what looked like
a very long, thin trumpet.
In the other hand, he held a large suitcase.
The Giant had stopped now right in front of
Mr and Mrs Goochey's house. The Goocheys had
a green-grocer's shop in the middle of the High
Street, and the family lived above the shop. The
two Goochey children slept in the upstairs front
room, Sophie knew that.
Page 3
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
The Giant was peering through the window
into the room where Michael and Jane Goochey
were sleeping. From across the street, Sophie
watched and held her breath.
She saw the Giant step back a pace and put the
suitcase down on the pavement. He bent over
and opened the suitcase. He took something
out of it. It looked like a glassjar, one of those
square ones with a screw top. He unscrewed the
top of thejar and poured what was in it into the
end of the long trumpet thing.
Sophie watched, trembling.
She saw the Giant straighten up again and
she saw him poke the trumpet in through the
open upstairs window ofthe room where the
Goochey children were sleeping. She saw the
Giant take a deep breath and whoof, he blew
through the trumpet.
No noise came out, but it was obvious to
Sophie that whatever had been in thejar had
now been blown through the trumpet into the
Goochey children's bedroom.
What could it be?
As the Giant withdrew the trumpet from the
window and bent down to pick up the suitcase
he happened to turn his head and glance across
the street.
In the moonlight, Sophie caught a glimpse of
an enormous long pale wrinkly face with the
most enormous ears. The nose was as sharp as a
Page 5
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
knife, and above the nose there were two bright
flashing eyes, and the eyes were staring straight
at Sophie. There was a fierce and devilish look
about them.
Sophie gave a yelp and pulled back from the
window. She flew across the dormitory and
jumped into her bed and hid under the blanket.
And there she crouched, still as a mouse, and
tingling all over.
Page 5
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Chapter Three
The Snatch
Under the blanket, Sophie waited.
After a minute or so, she lifted a corner of the
blanket and peeped out.
For the second time that night her blood
froze to ice and she wanted to scream, but no
sound came out. There at the window, with
the curtains pushed aside, was the enormous
long pale wrinkly face of the Giant Person,
staring in. The flashing black eyes were fixed on
Sophie's bed.
The next moment, a huge hand with pale
fingers came snaking in through the window.
This was followed by an arm, an arm as thick as
a tree-trunk, and the arm, the hand, the fingers
were reaching out across the room towards
Sophie's bed.
This time Sophie really did scream, but only
for a second because very quickly the huge
hand clamped down over her blanket and the
scream was smothered by the bedclothes.
Page 6
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Sophie,crouching underneath the blanket,
felt strong fingers grasping hold of her, and
then she was lifted up from her bed, blanket
and all, and whisked out of the window.
If you can think of anything more terrifying
than that happening to you in the middle of the
night, then let's hear about it.
The awful thing was that Sophie knew
exactly what was going on although she
couldn't see it happening. She knew that a
Monster (or Giant) with an enormous long pale
wrinkly face and dangerous eyes had plucked
her from her bed in the middle ofthe witching
hour and was now carrying her out through the
window smothered in a blanket.
What actually happened next was this.
When the Giant had got Sophie outside, he
arranged the blanket so that he could grasp all
the four corners of it at once in one of his huge
hands, with Sophie imprisoned inside. In the
other hand he seized the suitcase and the long
trumpet thing and off he ran.
Page 6
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Sophie, by squirming around inside the
blanket, managed to push the top of her head
out through a little gap just below the Giant's
hand. She stared around her.
She saw the village houses rushing by on
both sides. The Giant was sprinting down the
High Street. He was running so fast his black
cloak was streaming out behind him like the
wings of a bird. Each stride he took was as long
as a tennis court. Out of the village he ran, and
soon they were racing across the moonlit fields.
The hedges dividing the fields were no problem
to the Giant. He simply strode over them. A
wide river appeared in his path. He crossed it in
one flying stride.
Sophie crouched in the blanket, peering out.
She was being bumped against the Giant's
leg like a sack of potatoes. Over the fields and
hedges and rivers they went, and after a while
a frightening thought came into Sophie's head.
The Giant is running fast, she told herself,
because he is hungry and he wants to get home
as quickly as possible, and then he'll have me for
breakfast.
Page 7
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Page 8
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Chapter Four
The Cave
The Giant ran on and on. But now a curious
change took place in his way of running. Hе
seemed suddenly to go into a higher gear. Faster
and faster he went and soon he was travelling
at such a speed that the landscape became
blurred. The wind stung Sophie's cheeks. It
made her eyes water. It whipped her head back
and whistled in her ears. She could no longer
feel the Giant's feet touching the ground. She
had a weird sensation they were flying. It was
impossible to tell whether they were over land
or sea. This Giant had some sort of magic in his
legs. The wind rushing against Sophie's face
became so strong that she had to duck down
again into the blanket to prevent her head from
being blown away.
Was it really possible that they were crossing
oceans? It certainly felt that way to Sophie.
She crouched in the blanket and listened to
the howling of the wind. It went on for what
seemed like hours.
Page 9
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Then all at once the wind stopped its
howling. The pace began to slow down. Sophie
could feel the Giant's feet pounding once again
over the earth. She poked her head up out of the
blanket to have a look. They were in a country
of thick forests and rushing rivers. The Giant
had definitely slowed down and was now
running more normally, although normal was
a silly word to use to describe a galloping giant.
He leaped over a dozen rivers. He went rattling
through a great forest, then down into a valley
and up over a range of hills as bare as concrete,
and soon he was galloping over a desolate
wasteland that was not quite of this earth. The
ground was flat and pale yellow. Great lumps of
blue rock were scattered around, and dead trees
stood everywhere like skeletons. The moon had
long since disappeared and now the dawn was
breaking.
Sophie, still peering out from the blanket, saw
suddenly ahead of her a great craggy mountain.
The mountain was dark blue and all around it
the sky was gushing and glistening with light.
Bits of pale gold were flying among delicate
frosty-white flakes of cloud, and over to one
side the rim of the morning sun was coming up
red as blood.
Right beneath the mountain, the Giant
stopped. He was puffing mightily. His great
chest was heaving in and out. He paused to
catch his breath.
Page 9
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Directly in front of them, lying against the side
of the mountain, Sophie could see a massive
round stone. It was as big as a house. The Giant
reached out and rolled the stone to one side
as easily as if it had been a football, and now,
where the stone had been, there appeared a
vast black hole. The hole was so large the Giant
didn't even have to duck his head as he went
in. He strode into the black hole still carrying
Sophie in one hand, the trumpet and the
suitcase in the other.
As soon as he was inside, he stopped and
turned and rolled the great stone back into
place so that the entrance to his secret cave was
completely hidden from outside.
Now that the entrance had been sealed up,
there was not a glint of light inside the cave. All
was black.
Sophie felt herself being lowered to the
ground. Then the Giant let go of the blanket
completely. His footsteps moved away. Sophie
sat there in the dark, shivering with fear.
He is getting ready to eat me, she told herself.
He will probably eat me raw,just as I am.
Or perhaps he will boil me first.
Page 10
THE BFG (COLOUR EDITION)
Or he will have me fried. He will drop me like
a rasher of bacon into some gigantic frying-pan
sizzling with fat.
A blaze of light suddenly lit up the whole
place. Sophie blinked and stared.
She saw an enormous cavern with a high
rocky roof.
The walls on either side were lined with
shelves, and on the shelves there stood
row upon row of glass jars. There were jars
everywhere. They were piled up in the corners.
They filled every nook and cranny of the cave.
In the middle of the floor there was a table
twelve feet high and a chair to match.
The Giant took off his black cloak and hung
it against the wall. Sophie saw that under the
cloak he was wearing a sort of collarless shirt
and a dirty old leather waistcoat that didn't
seem to have any buttons. His trousers were
faded green and were far too short in the
legs. On his bare feet he was wearing a pair of
ridiculous sandals that for some reason had
holes cut along each side, with a large hole
at the end where his toes stuck out. Sophie,
crouching on the floor of the cave in her
nightie, gazed back at him through thick steelrimmed glasses. She was trembling like a leaf
in the wind, and a finger of ice was running up
and down the length of her spine.
'Ha!' shouted the Giant, walking forward
and rubbing his hands together. 'What has us
Page 12